[//]: # (This file is automatically generated by Cute Framework's docs parser.)
[//]: # (Do not edit this file by hand!)
[//]: # (See: https://github.com/RandyGaul/cute_framework/blob/master/samples/docs_parser.cpp)
[](../header.md ':include')

# CF_Png

Category: [png_cache](/api_reference?id=png_cache)  
GitHub: [cute_png_cache.h](https://github.com/RandyGaul/cute_framework/blob/master/include/cute_png_cache.h)  
---

A single image of raw pixels, loaded from a png cache.

Struct Members | Description
--- | ---
`const char* path` | Path to the associated png on-disk.
`uint64_t id` | Unique identifier assigned by the cache.
`CF_Pixel* pix` | Pointer to the pixels of the png image.
`int w` | Width of the image in pixels.
`int h` | Height of the image in pixels.

## Remarks

The png cache is used to load png images from disk in order to make sprites. The png cache
system is an advanced option for people who want lower level access to creating their own
custom sprites, for example by loading sprites from their own custom animation format. If you just
want a really easy way to load sprites, look at cute_sprite.h for the easy sprite API (search for
`easy_make_sprite` or `make_sprite` functions).

You will mostly just care about these three functions.

    cf_png_cache_load
    cf_png_cache_unload
    cf_make_png_cache_sprite

It's a cache, which means it actually caches images loaded in RAM, so subsequent
calls to [cf_png_cache_load](/png_cache/cf_png_cache_load.md) won't have to fetch the image off of disk, as long as
the image is currently cached in RAM.

## Related Pages

[cf_make_png_cache_sprite](/png_cache/cf_make_png_cache_sprite.md)  
[cf_png_defaults](/png_cache/cf_png_defaults.md)  
[cf_png_cache_load](/png_cache/cf_png_cache_load.md)  
[cf_make_png_cache_animation](/png_cache/cf_make_png_cache_animation.md)  
