[//]: # (This file is automatically generated by Cute Framework's docs parser.)
[//]: # (Do not edit this file by hand!)
[//]: # (See: https://github.com/RandyGaul/cute_framework/blob/master/samples/docs_parser.cpp)
[](../header.md ':include')

# CF_AppOptionFlagBits

Category: [app](/api_reference?id=app)  
GitHub: [cute_app.h](https://github.com/RandyGaul/cute_framework/blob/master/include/cute_app.h)  
---

Various options to control how the application starts up, such as fullscreen, or selecting a graphics backend.

## Values

Enum | Description
--- | ---
APP_OPTIONS_NO_GFX_BIT | Does not initialize any graphics backend at all (for servers or headless mode).
APP_OPTIONS_FULLSCREEN_BIT | Starts the application in borderless full-screen mode.
APP_OPTIONS_RESIZABLE_BIT | Allows the window to be resized.
APP_OPTIONS_HIDDEN_BIT | Starts the application with the window hidden.
APP_OPTIONS_WINDOW_POS_CENTERED_BIT | Starts the application with the window centered on the screen. Does not affect any later adjustments to window size/position.
APP_OPTIONS_FILE_SYSTEM_DONT_DEFAULT_MOUNT_BIT | Disables automatically mounting the folder the executable runs from to "/". See [cf_fs_mount](/file/cf_fs_mount.md) for more details.
APP_OPTIONS_NO_AUDIO_BIT | Starts the application with no audio.
APP_OPTIONS_GFX_D3D11_BIT | Starts the application with a D3D11 backend.
APP_OPTIONS_GFX_D3D12_BIT | Starts the application with a D3D12 backend.
APP_OPTIONS_GFX_METAL_BIT | Starts the application with a Metal backend.
APP_OPTIONS_GFX_VULKAN_BIT | Starts the application with a Vulkan backend.

## Code Example

> Creating a basic window and immediately destroying it.

```cpp
#include <cute.h>
using namespace cute;

int main(int argc, const char argv)
{
    app_make("Fancy Window Title", 0, 0, 0, 640, 480, APP_OPTIONS_WINDOW_POS_CENTERED, argv[0]);
    app_destroy();
    return 0;
}
```

## Remarks

The `app_options` parameter of [cf_make_app](/app/cf_make_app.md) is a bitmask flag. Simply take the `APP_OPTIONS_` flags listed above and OR them together.

## Related Pages

[cf_destroy_app](/app/cf_destroy_app.md)  
[cf_make_app](/app/cf_make_app.md)  
