# Cute Protocol Standard

The Cute protocol implements a client-server based transport layer for securely connecting and authenticating with backend game servers over UDP. The purpose of this document is to aid users in making educated decisions about how to use the Cute Protocol in their own game.

## High Level Overview

The main pieces of the Cute Protocol are:

1. Connect tokens.
2. Web service.
3. Dedicated servers.
4. Clients.

The web service provides an authentication mechanism via [REST](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer) call ([HTTPS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTPS) is recommended, but not required). Any authentication technique can be used since authentication with a web service is: A) very well understood with many good pre-built solutions (like OAuth/2 or OpenID); B) easily isolated away from this document without a strong conceptual dependency. The details of the web service and its exact API are out of scope of the standard, except for how they produce a connect token.

The connect token is the mechanism that allows clients to securely authenticate with a dedicated server. Dedicated servers are the servers actually running game. Clients are the players who connect to a dedicated server in order to play.

## Connecting as a Client

The steps for a client to connect to a dedicated game server are:

1. Client wants to authenticate with the web service, and issues a REST call to obtain a connect token.
2. Web service generates and returns a connect token to the client.
3. Client sends the token to a dedicated server instance, in order to securely setup a connection and play.
4. The dedicated server processes the connect token, and if valid, starts the connection handshake with the client.
5. If the handshake succeeds, the player is connected and begins to play over a secure UDP channel.

## Connect Token Format

The connect token has three major sections.

1. PUBLIC SECTION
2. SECRET SECTION
3. REST SECTION

Once a client receives a connect token from the web service, the PUBLIC SECTION is read by the client. This section contains a server IP list of dedicated game servers to attempt to connect to, along with some other data. Once read, the client deletes the REST SECTION. The remaining data in the connect token consists of 1024 bytes. The final 1024 bytes are called the *connect token packet*.

The *connect token packet* is not modifiable by the client, and the SECRET SECTION is not readable and can not be generated by anyone except the web service and dedicated game servers. The entire *connect token packet* is protected by a cryptographically secure AEAD ([Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Authenticated_encryption#Authenticated_encryption_with_associated_data)) primitive. The key used for the AEAD primitive is a shared secret known by all dedicated game servers, and the web service. It is recommended to implement a mechanism to rotate this key periodically, though the mechanism to do so is out of scope for this document.

##### Note:
> The AEAD primitive is a function that encrypts a chunk of data, and computes an HMAC ([keyed-hash message authentication code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HMAC)). The HMAC is a 16 byte value used to authenticate the message, and prevent tampering/modification of the message (i.e. maintain integrity of the message). The encryption ensures only those who know the key can read the message. The Associated Data (the AD in AEAD) is a chunk of data that is not encrypted, but "mixed-in" to the computation of the HMAC.

The PUBLIC SECTION of the *connect token packet* is used as Associated Data for the AEAD, where the SECRET SECTION is encrypted by the AEAD. Once the AEAD is used, the output HMAC is appended to the final 16 bytes of the token, thus completing the full 1024 bytes *connect token packet*.

### The Connect Token Format
```
--  BEGIN PUBLIC SECTION  --
---  BEGIN REST SECTION  ---  
version info                   9          "Cute 1.00" ASCII, including nul byte.
protocol id                    uint64_t   User chosen value to identify the game.
creation timestamp             uint64_t   Unix timestamp of when the connect token was created.
client to server key           32 bytes   Client uses to encrypt packets, server uses to decrypt packets.
server to client key           32 bytes   Server uses to encrypt packets, client uses to decrypt packets.
----  END REST SECTION  ----            
zero byte                      1 byte     Represents packet type of *connect token packet*.
version info                   9          "Cute 1.00" ASCII, including nul byte.
protocol id                    uint64_t   User chosen value to identify the game.
expiration timestamp           uint64_t   Unix timestamp of when the connect token becomes invalid.
handshake timeout              int32_t    Seconds of how long a connection handshake will wait before timing out.
number of server endpoints     uint32_t   The number of servers in the following list in the range of [1, 32].
<for each server endpoint>
    address type               uint8_t    1 = IPv4, 2 = IPv6 address, in the range of [1, 2].
    <if IPv4 address>          6 bytes    Format: a.b.c.d:port
        a                      uint8_t
        b                      uint8_t
        c                      uint8_t
        d                      uint8_t
        port                   uint16_t
    <else if IPv6 address>     18 bytes   Format: [a:b:c:d:e:f:g:h]:port
        a                      uint16_t
        b                      uint16_t
        c                      uint16_t
        d                      uint16_t
        e                      uint16_t
        f                      uint16_t
        g                      uint16_t
        h                      uint16_t
        port                   uint16_t
    <end if>
<end for>
<zeroes padded to 656 bytes>              Counting from the end of the REST SECTION.
connect token nonce            24 bytes
// --  END PUBLIC SECTION  --
// -- BEGIN SECRET SECTION --
client id                      uint64_t   Unique identifier for a particular client.
client to server key           32 bytes   Client uses to encrypt packets, server uses to decrypt packets.
server to client key           32 bytes   Server uses to encrypt packets, client uses to decrypt packets.
user data                      256 bytes  Space for the user to store whatever auxiliary data they need.
// --  END SECRET SECTION  --
HMAC bytes                     16 bytes   Written and used by encryption primitives to verify key signature.
```

The *connect token packet* is sent as-is without modification to a game server in the list. All game servers are valid choices, but it is recommended to start by making an attempt to connect to the first server in the list. If a failure occurs (for example the server is full), the client can move onto the next server in the list. Storing only a single server in the list is acceptable, but it is recommended to have more than one if possible, to improve the chances a client can successfully connect to a game server and play.

Once the client sends the *connect token packet* to a game server, the connection handshake begins.

##### Note:
> The Unix timestamps can, for example, be created with something similar to `(uint64_t)time(NULL)` in the C language.

## Connection Handshake

The connection handshake begins once a client starts sending a *connect token packet* to a game server. The client runs a state machine to fulfill the handshake. Once the state machine completes successfully, the connection is complete and both the client and game server are free to send *payload packet*'s to each other, containing game-specific data.

##### Note:
> There is a description of all packet types and their formats later in this document in the [Packet Formats](#packet-formats) section.

## Client Handshake State Machine

The various client states.

State Name | Value
--- | ---
*connect token expired* | -6
*invalid connect token* | -5
*connection timed out* | -4
*challenge response timed out* | -3
*connection request timed out* | -2
*connection denied* | -1
*disconnected* | 0
*sending connection request* | 1
*sending challenge response* | 2
*connected* | 3

Each state only accepts a subset of packet types, and all extraneous packets received are ignored.

### Disconnected

The default state is *disconnected*. The client transitions to the *sending connection request* state once they receive a valid connect token from the web service and have recorded data from the PUBLIC SECTION of the connect token.

Exactly how the client requests and receives the connect token is out of scope of this document, besides requiring a secure REST API call. Exactly how the web service generates the server list of the connect token is also out of scope of this document, as this is the realm of match-making or other similar mechanisms.

The client reads the PUBLIC SECTION of the connect token and records all of the data. If the data is invalid the client transitions to the *invalid connect token* state. The connect token is deemed invalid by the client if the number of server addresses is outside the range of [1, 32], or if an IP address type is not in the range [1, 2], or if the creation timestamp is more recent than the expiration timestamp.

### Sending Connection Request

The client sends the *connect token packet* to a game server from the list and waits for a response. This packet is **not** encrypted by the client, as it is already processed by the AEAD primitive by the web service. If the server responds with a *challenge request packet*, the client transitions to the *sending challenge response*, after decrypting and recording the contents of the *challenge request packet*.

It is recommended the client moves onto the next server in the server list in the event of failure cases. If no more servers are left in the list, the client transitions to one of the error states.

If the last server in the list responds with a *connection denied packet*, the client transitions to the *connection denied* state. If the last server in the server does not send a *challenge request packet* or a *connection denied packet*, the client transitions to the *connection request timed out* state.

### Sending Challenge Response

During the *sending connection request* the client stored the contents of *challenge request packet*. The contents are used to form the *challenge response packet*. The client sends the server the *challenge response packet*. The purpose is to verify a few things about the client:

1. That the client is not spoofing their IP address, and can successfully respond to the server by reflecting the *challenge request packet* with a *challenge response packet*.
2. That the client is able to decrypt the *challenge request packet* and encrypt the *challenge response packet*. This asserts that the client was the **only** user the web service gave the original connect token to.

If successful, the server will respond with a *connection accepted packet*, and the client transitions to the *connected* state after recording data from the *connection accepted packet*. The client records the *client id* field, the *max clients* field, and the `connection timeout` field from the *connection accepted packet*.

It is recommended the client moves onto the next server in the server list in the event of failure cases. If no more servers are left in the list, the client transitions to one of the error states.

If the last server in the list responds with a *connection denied packet*, the client transitions to the *connection denied* state. If the last server in the server does not send a *connection accepted packet* or a *connection denied packet*, the client transitions to the *challenge response timed out* state.

### Connected

The purpose of the connected state is to allow the user to send and receive *payload packet*'s containing game-specific data. In the absence of any payload packets, the client generates and sends a *keepalive packet* at the KEEPALIVE_FREQUENCY tuning parameter (see [Tuning Parameters](#tuning-parameters)).

If no *payload packet*'s or *keepalive packet*'s are received from the server within a `connection timeout` timespan, the client transitions to the *connection timed out* state.

If the client receives a *disconnect packet* from the server it transitions to the *disconnected* state after performing the [Disconnect Sequence](#disconnect-sequence).

### Connect Token Expired

If at any time the client's connect token expires, the client transitions to the *connect token expired*. This can happen if the client has to try connecting to multiple servers in the server list, and continually fails to establish a connection.

The time to live for the connect token is calculated as:

    expiration timestamp - creation timestamp

## Packet Formats

Packet Type | Packet Type Value
--- | ---
*connect token packet* | 0
*keepalive packet* | 1
*connection denied packet* | 2
*payload packet* | 3
*connection accepted packet* | 4
*challenge request packet* | 5
*challenge response packet* | 6
*disconnect packet* | 7

The Packet Type Value is used to write the `packet type` byte as described in the next section.

## Encrypted Packets

All packets except for the *connect token packet* are encrypted before sent. Each encrypted packet has the following form.

```
packet type      1 byte
sequence nonce   uint64_t
encrypted bytes  <variable length>
HMAC bytes       16 bytes
```

All packets are 1280 bytes or smaller, so the maximum size of the `encrypted bytes`	 is 1255 bytes.

The *connect token packet* does not get encrypted by the client before being sent, as it is already encrypted by the web service using a secret key only known to the web service and the backend dedicated game servers. This means the client cannot read, modify, or generate the SECRET SECTION of the *connect token packet*.

### Associated Data for Encrypted Packets

Each encrypted packet uses a buffer for Associated Data in the AEAD. The buffeer is defined as so.

```
packet type      1 byte
version info     9          "Cute 1.00" ASCII, including nul byte.
protocol id      uint64_t   User chosen value to identify the game.
```

This buffer is constructed locally inside both the client and the server for each packet received or sent. The `version info` and the `protocol id` do not change frequently, and can be static un-changing memory. The `packet type` byte should be read from the packet and copied in front of the Associated Data buffer used by the AEAD.

## Unencrypted Packets

Prior to encryption each packet type has a different format, which comprise the data that forms the `encrypted bytes` post-encryption.

### Keepalive Packet

```
<no data>           0 bytes
```

The *keepalive packet* is only sent if no *keepalive packet*'s, *disconnect packet*'s, or *payload packet*'s have been received within KEEPALIVE_FREQUENCY seconds during the client *connected* state. If none of these packets are received by either the client or the server, the connection is terminated after `connection timeout` seconds.

### Connection Denied Packet

```
<no data>           0 bytes
```

The *connection denied packet* can be sent by the server during the connection handshake. It is sent whenever an error occurs (like no room on the server, or received packets fail to decrypt), or if the client fails to comply with the proper handshake process.

### Payload Packet

```
payload data        In the range of [1, 1255] bytes.
```

The *payload packet* can be sent by the client or the server during the *connected* state of the client. They contain game specific user data.

### Connection Accepted Packet

```
client id           uint64_t
max clients         uint32_t
connection timeout  uint32_t
```

The *connection accepted packet* is sent from both the client and the server once a client has successfully connected to the server.

### Challenge Request Packet

```
sequence nonce      uint64_t
secret data         256 bytes
```

The *challenge request packet* is sent from the server as apart of the connection handshake process. This challenge response sequence is used to prevent ip spoofing and *connect token packet* sniffing. For more information about how, see the [Sending Challenge Response](#sending-challenge-response) section.

The `sequence nonce` is an incrementing counter starting at 0, initialized upon server restart.

The `secret data` is simply 256 bytes of data. The data can be anything, including randomized bits. Exactly what bits are the `secret data` is left to the implementation. To fulfill the purpose of this packet, the client merely needs to decrypt the packet with the `server to client` key, encrypt it with the `client to server key`, and send it back to the server. The contents of the `secret data` are ignored by the client.

### Challenge Response Packet

```
sequence nonce      uint64_t
secret data         256 bytes
```

The *challenge response packet* is the reflected version of the *challenge request packet*, and is sent by the client as apart of the connection handshake process. All the client has to do is copy the entire decrypted *challenge request packet*, encrypt it, and send it back to the server for verification. For more information see the [Sending Challenge Response](#sending-challenge-response), or the [Challenge Request Packet](#challenge-request-packet) section.

### Disconnect Packet

```
<no data>           0 bytes
```

The *disconnect packet* can be sent by the client or the server during the client *connected* state. Once sent, the connection is considered terminated. Once received, the connection is also considered terminated. Sending the *disconnect packet* must be done by the [Disconnect Sequence](#disconnect-sequence) in order to statistically assure clean disconnects, without waiting for unnecessary timeouts.

## Decrypting Packets

When decrypting packets the following steps must occur, in order, before a packet can be considered valid for further processing.

1. If an incoming packet is less than 26 bytes, ignore the packet.
2. If the `packet type` byte is greater than 7, ignore the packet.
3. The server ignores packets of types *challenge response packet*, *connection denied packet*, and *connection accepted packet*.
4. The client ignores packets of types *challenge request packet* and *connect token packet*.
5. If the packet fails replay protection, ignore the packet. See the [Replay Protection](#replay-protection) section for more info.
6. If the packet fails to decrypt with the AEAD primitive, ignore the packet.
7. If the packet's size post-encryption is not within the ranges specified by each packet format in the [Unencrypted Packets](#unencrypted-packets) section, ignore the packet. Here's a table of acceptable sizes.

Packet Type | Size Post-Encryption
--- | ---
*connect token packet* | 1008 bytes
*keepalive packet* | 0 bytes
*connection denied packet* | 0 bytes
*payload packet* | In the range of [1-1255] bytes
*connection accepted packet* | 16 bytes
*challenge request packet* | 264 bytes
*challenge response packet* | 264 bytes
*disconnect packet* | 0 bytes

## Server Handshake and Connection Process

## Disconnect Sequence

In order to gracefully disconnect, either the client or the server can perform the Disconnect Sequence, which means to fire off a series of *disconnect packet*'s in quick succession (e.g. in a for loop). The number of packets is defined by the DISCONNECT_SEQUENCE_PACKET_COUNT tuning parameter (see [Tuning Parameters](#tuning-parameters)). The purpose of the redundancy is to be statistically likely that one of the packets gets through to the endpoint, even in the face of packet loss.

## Protection Against Various Attacks

Cute Protocol takes measures to defend itself against many common attacks. This list is not meant to be exhaustive, but instead is included for posterity.

### Replay Protection

Replay protection is to guard against [replay attacks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Replay_attack). Cute Protocol uses incrementing sequence numbers as the nonce for the AEAD primitive in order to guard against replay attacks.

Replay protection is enabled for the *disconnect packet*, *keepalive packet*, and *payload packet*. All other packet types are already protected by replay attacks by other means (like the connect token handling process, or replay attacks simply do nothing in other cases and are safely ignored).

The replay algorithm uses an array of `uint64_t` elements called the *replay buffer*. The size of the *replay buffer* is tuneable by REPLAY_BUFFER_SIZE tunable (see [Tuning Parameters](#tuning-parameters)). Here is the replay protection algorithm.

1. All encrypted packets are prefixed with a `uint64_t` sequence number , starting at zero and incrementing. There is a different incrementing counter for each connection.
2. The sequence number of a received packet is read prior to decryption. It can not be modified without detection by the AEAD primitive, since it is used as a nonce in the AEAD.
3. The maximum sequence number is tracked, called *max sequence*.
4. If the sequence number + REPLAY_BUFFER_SIZE is less than *max sequence*, ignore the packet. This means either the packet is very old, and should be dropped (since this UDP), or it was an attempted replay attack/duplicated packet. Otherwise update *max sequence* and set it to the sequence number.
5. If the sequence number has already been received, as determined by a lookup into the *replay buffer*, ignore the packet as it is an attempted replay attack/duplicated packet.

Here is an example implementation of the replay protection buffer and culling algorithm written in C.

```c
#define REPLAY_BUFFER_SIZE

struct replay_buffer_t
{
    uint64_t max;
    uint64_t entries[REPLAY_BUFFER_SIZE];
};

void replay_buffer_init(replay_buffer_t* buffer)
{
    buffer->max = 0;
    CUTE_MEMSET(buffer->entries, ~0, sizeof(uint64_t) * REPLAY_BUFFER_SIZE);
}

int replay_buffer_cull_duplicate(replay_buffer_t* buffer, uint64_t sequence, uint64_t seed)
{
    if (sequence + REPLAY_BUFFER_SIZE < buffer->max) {
        // This is UDP - just drop old packets.
        return -1;
    }

    if (buffer->max < sequence) {
        buffer->max = sequence;
    }

    uint64_t h = sequence + seed;
    int index = (int)(h % REPLAY_BUFFER_SIZE);
    uint64_t val = buffer->entries[index];
    int empty_slot = val == ~0ULL;
    int outdated = val >= sequence;
    if (empty_slot | !outdated) {
        buffer->entries[index] = sequence;
        return 0;
    } else {
        // Duplicate or replay packet detected.
        return -1;
    }
}
```

Here is some an example use-case scenario for using replay protection on an incoming packet, written in C.


```c
int read_packet(
    uint8_t* packet,
    int size,
    uint64_t sequence_offset,
    replay_buffer_t*
    replay_buffer,
    /* ... other params ... */
)
{
    // ...

    uint8_t packet_type = read_uint8(&packet);
    uint8_t sequence =  = read_uint64(&packet);
    if (replay_buffer_cull_duplicate(replay_buffer, sequence, sequence_offset) {
        return -1;
    }

    // ...
}
```

##### Note:

> `sequence offset` can safely be set to zero in the case of Cute Protocol, since each connection uses unique keys as determined by the initial connect token, so nonce reuse starting at zero and incrementing is perfectly safe. In many other protocols a random nonce offset seed is necessary. The example code includes this randomized offset as `sequence_offset` for posterity. Typically the server will generate the session-nonce, and communicate it to the client in a secure manner. In Cute Protocol's case, the web service communicates the `client to server key` and the `server to client key`, which defines a unique session, and is thus safe from session recording and replay attacks.

* Reflection
* IP spoofing
* "Going wide"
* Packet sniffing
* DDoS mitigation
* DoS amplification
* Secret key exposure mitigation - key rotation

## Tuning Parameters

* KEEPALIVE_FREQUENCY
* DISCONNECT_SEQUENCE_PACKET_COUNT
* REPLAY_BUFFER_SIZE

## Constants

TODO: Link all packet types and states with anchors.
