[//]: # (This file is automatically generated by Cute Framework's docs parser.)
[//]: # (Do not edit this file by hand!)
[//]: # (See: https://github.com/RandyGaul/cute_framework/blob/master/samples/docs_parser.cpp)
[](../header.md ':include')

# CF_CanvasParams

Category: [graphics](/api_reference?id=graphics)  
GitHub: [cute_graphics.h](https://github.com/RandyGaul/cute_framework/blob/master/include/cute_graphics.h)  
---

A texture the GPU can draw upon (with an optional depth/stencil texture).

Struct Members | Description
--- | ---
`const char* name` | The name of the canvas, for debug purposes.
`CF_TextureParams target` | The texture used to store pixel information when rendering to the canvas. See [CF_TextureParams](/graphics/cf_textureparams.md).
`bool depth_stencil_enable` | Defaults to false. If true enables a depth-stencil buffer attachment.
`CF_TextureParams depth_stencil_target` | The texture used to store depth and stencil information when rendering to the canvas. See [CF_TextureParams](/graphics/cf_textureparams.md).
`CF_SampleCount sample_count` | MSAA sample count; must be 1, 2, 4, or 8 (see [CF_SampleCount](/graphics/cf_samplecount.md)). Defaults to 1 (no MSAA).

## Remarks

The clear color settings are used when [cf_apply_canvas](/graphics/cf_apply_canvas.md) is called. You can change the clear color
by calling [cf_clear_color](/graphics/cf_clear_color.md). Usually you will not need to create a canvas at all, as it's an advanced feature for
users who want to draw to an off-screen buffer. Use cases can include rendering reflections, advanced lighting
techniques, or other kinds of multi-pass effects.

## Related Pages

[cf_clear_color](/graphics/cf_clear_color.md)  
[cf_canvas_defaults](/graphics/cf_canvas_defaults.md)  
[cf_make_canvas](/graphics/cf_make_canvas.md)  
[cf_destroy_canvas](/graphics/cf_destroy_canvas.md)  
[cf_apply_canvas](/graphics/cf_apply_canvas.md)  
