[//]: # (This file is automatically generated by Cute Framework's docs parser.)
[//]: # (Do not edit this file by hand!)
[//]: # (See: https://github.com/RandyGaul/cute_framework/blob/master/samples/docs_parser.cpp)
[](../header.md ':include')

# CF_RenderState

Category: [graphics](/api_reference?id=graphics)  
GitHub: [cute_graphics.h](https://github.com/RandyGaul/cute_framework/blob/master/include/cute_graphics.h)  
---

A bag of rendering related settings.

Struct Members | Description
--- | ---
`CF_PrimitiveType primitive_type` | The type of primitive to draw, as in triangles or lines (triangle list by default). See [CF_PrimitiveType](/graphics/cf_primitivetype.md).
`CF_CullMode cull_mode` | Controls whether or not to cull triangles based on their winding order. See [CF_CullMode](/graphics/cf_cullmode.md).
`CF_BlendState blend` | Controls how the GPU blends pixels together during compositing. See [CF_BlendState](/graphics/cf_blendstate.md).
`CF_CompareFunction depth_compare` | Defines how to perform depth-testing. See [CF_CompareFunction](/graphics/cf_comparefunction.md).
`bool depth_write_enabled` | Must be true to enable depth-testing and use of the depth buffer.
`CF_StencilParams stencil` | Sets up how to perform (if at all) stencil testing. See [CF_StencilParams](/graphics/cf_stencilparams.md).
`float depth_bias_constant_factor` | A scalar factor controlling the depth value added to each fragment.
`float depth_bias_clamp` | The maximum depth bias of a fragment.
`float depth_bias_slope_factor` | A scalar factor applied to a fragment's slope in depth calculations.
`bool enable_depth_bias` | True to bias fragment depth values.
`bool enable_depth_clip` | True to enable depth clip, false to enable depth clamp.

## Remarks

The [CF_RenderState](/graphics/cf_renderstate.md) is a big collection of various rendering settings, such as culling mode,
blending operations, depth and stencil settings, etc. Altering these on a material always means
increasing your draw call count. It's best to try and set these once and leave them alone, though
this is not always possible.

## Related Pages

[CF_BlendState](/graphics/cf_blendstate.md)  
[CF_CullMode](/graphics/cf_cullmode.md)  
[CF_StencilParams](/graphics/cf_stencilparams.md)  
[cf_material_set_render_state](/graphics/cf_material_set_render_state.md)  
