[//]: # (This file is automatically generated by Cute Framework's docs parser.)
[//]: # (Do not edit this file by hand!)
[//]: # (See: https://github.com/RandyGaul/cute_framework/blob/master/samples/docs_parser.cpp)
[](../header.md ':include')

# CF_TextureParams

Category: [graphics](/api_reference?id=graphics)  
GitHub: [cute_graphics.h](https://github.com/RandyGaul/cute_framework/blob/master/include/cute_graphics.h)  
---

A collection of parameters to create a [CF_Texture](/graphics/cf_texture.md) with [cf_make_texture](/graphics/cf_make_texture.md).

Struct Members | Description
--- | ---
`CF_PixelFormat pixel_format` | The pixel format for this texture's data. See [CF_PixelFormat](/graphics/cf_pixelformat.md).
`CF_TextureUsageFlags usage` | The memory access pattern for this texture on the GPU. See `CF_TextureUsageBits`.
`CF_Filter filter` | The filtering operation to use when fetching data out of the texture, on the GPU. See [CF_Filter](/graphics/cf_filter.md).
`CF_WrapMode wrap_u` | The texture wrapping behavior when addressing beyond [0,1) for the u-coordinate. See [CF_WrapMode](/graphics/cf_wrapmode.md).
`CF_WrapMode wrap_v` | The texture wrapping behavior when addressing beyond [0,1) for the v-coordinate. See [CF_WrapMode](/graphics/cf_wrapmode.md).
`CF_MipFilter mip_filter` | The filtering operation to use when fetching data out of a mipmap, on the GPU. See [CF_MipFilter](/graphics/cf_mipfilter.md).
`int width` | Number of elements (usually pixels) along the width of the texture.
`int height` | Number of elements (usually pixels) along the height of the texture.
`int mip_count` | 0 = auto compute from dimensions if `generate_mipmaps` is true, else specify an explicit number.
`bool generate_mipmaps` | Defaulted to false, true to enable mipmap generation and will be initialized with full mipmaps.
`float mip_lod_bias` | Mipmap level bias; positive = blurrier, negative = sharper.
`float max_anisotropy` | Maximum anisotropy level; 1.0 disables anisotropic filtering.
`bool stream` | Set this to true if you plan to update the texture contents each frame.

## Remarks

You may get a set of good default values by calling [cf_texture_defaults](/graphics/cf_texture_defaults.md).

## Related Pages

[cf_texture_update](/graphics/cf_texture_update.md)  
[cf_texture_defaults](/graphics/cf_texture_defaults.md)  
[CF_Texture](/graphics/cf_texture.md)  
[cf_make_texture](/graphics/cf_make_texture.md)  
[cf_destroy_texture](/graphics/cf_destroy_texture.md)  
